# The <code>generate_linear_distribution_rsa</code> executable

## Synopsis
```console
Synopsis: mpirun generate_linear_distribution_rsa \
   [ -delta <delta> ] [ -dim <dimension> ] \
      [ -max | -rnd | -exp <p> <q> ] <n> { <n> }
```

Computes the distribution induced by Ekerå-Håstad's algorithm for factoring RSA integers. This algorithm reduces the RSA integer factoring problem to a short discrete logarithm problem and solves it quantumly. The distributions generated by this executable are for the case where one is interested in factoring after a single run of the quantum algorithm rather than in making tradeoffs. It sets m = (n / 2) - 1 and l = m - delta.

If you seek to make tradeoffs, use the [<code>generate_linear_distribution</code>](generate-linear-distribution.md) executable instead.

The distribution generated will be assigned an appropriate name and written to the <code>distributions</code> directory. If this directory does not exist, it will be created. If the distribution already exists, an error will be reported.

> <b>Note:</b> This is an MPI program. The node with rank zero acts as server. All other nodes are clients, requesting jobs from and reporting back to the server node. A minimum of two nodes is hence required.

### Mandatory command line arguments
Entries <code>\<n\></code> where
- <code>\<n\></code> is the even bit length n of the RSA integer N = pq

### Optional command line arguments
Flags controlling the value of d (defaults to <code>-det</code>):
- <code>-max</code> selects maximal d = 2^m - 1
- <code>-rnd</code> selects d uniformly at random from (2^(m-1), 2^m)
- <code>-exp \<p\> \<q\></code> explicitly sets d to (<code>\<p\></code> - 1)/2 + (<code>\<q\></code> - 1)/2 - 2^m for 2^((n/2)-1) < <code>\<p\></code>, <code>\<q\></code> < 2^(n/2)

Flags controlling the paddling length reduction delta (defaults to 20):
- <code>-delta \<delta\></code> sets delta to <code>\<delta\></code>

Flags controlling the dimension (defaults to 2048):
- <code>-dim \<dimension\></code> sets the dimension to <code>\<dimension\></code>

The dimension specifies the resolution of the histogram. Must be a power of two. The dimension is 2^nu in the paper on post-processing short discrete logarithms and Appendix A on order-finding to the paper on computing general discrete logarithms with tradeoffs. See these references for a description of how the histogram is constructed.
